9th of September 2025 

It was an emotional filled moment. Nikola and I were sitting with Yiayia while we wait to hear back from Dr Bell. Papou is in the hospital, originally for an infection with Flu like systems. Which now has been discovered as a leak in a graft from one of his surgeries in the heart. I’ve never seen Yiayia that hysterical. I don’t use the word in the normal connatiaion.  But,  the woman had a look that she didn’t know what to do with herself. Her entire life she has been with Papou. As we started to calm her down. We got a glimpse into her life with him.  We first started with an off comment of me finally going to Tasmania. In my 22 years of living, I haven’t visited the state. She related with a story about how her and Papou were living in Athens. Papou was studying at the time, where he was eventually certified in teaching. In their final week, they planned to visit the Acropolis. In passing with their neighbour in their complex, they shared that these plans. Where she asked if she could join. She was also a student, but she came from North of Greece. And in her 3-4 years of studying she never went to the monument. After that week, Yiayia and Papou returned to Cyprus. Although Papou had to back next semester to finish off his studies for another 6 months. 
Once finished, Papou was 27. In Cyprus its mandatory to do your national service, and still till the day of writing this passage (2025). He did one week on the ground, doing physical training. Concluding that he would be better use doing office work, and would let the 18-19 year olds to the dirty work. In the office, his job was to translate morse code messages in Greek, and after 18 months he returned back to Yiayia in Polis. Oh, and he was only paid 4 pounds a month for his service, adjusting for inflation it was still pittance. After his service, Yiayia felt like she could settle into Cyrpus. Initally leaving at 12, and coming back when she was 19. She didn’t see Cyprus as a home, and even felt like a foreigner. As life in London was so different to Polis. But, as Papou got their car, and Yiayia gave birth to my mum at 21. Through caesarean,  Maria Gravina was born  on the 25th of November, 1969. Mum argues that her date of birth was actually the 24th and the hospital got the dates wrong, if this can be any indication on how up to date Cypriot technology was at the time. At 26, Yiayia gave birth to her second daughter Barbara Kitallides on June 27th 1973, who had to be yanked from the womb as she didn’t want to come out. Their life was settled in Polios, at this time Yiayia was ordering furniture to be made. Which eventually had to be cancelled because of the Turkish Invasion in 1974. It would be rude for me to reduce the impact on their lives as just their furniture order being cancelled, but life stopped for them. On the night of the invasion, Papou was escorted by 2 police offiers at 1-2 am, and was ordered to drive to where he will serve. Yiayia with her two children had no idea where Papou was. Their village was evacuated, along with the furtinutre order being cancelled. Travelling to the mountains, they found refuge in the villages. They were given shelter and food with no hesitation, and before sunrise they would travel to the caves further up in the mountains. The village sat empty until it was sunset where they returned to eat. After 40 days, Papou returned from his duties, and that’s where he stated that this was no place for his children to be raised. And planned for their trip to Australia. 

Yiayia has moved around a lot. Sotiroula (Sue) Pita was born on August 2nd 1948 and new Polis until her dad set up for her family to move to London. Her dad (George) was a servant/Butler for an English General. After George’s twin brother was killed in the mines he works at. The company offered George a job, and after a while he wanted something  more. His goal was to move to London and make enough money to send for his family. He failed in the first 6 months, and returned back to Cyprus. He was given a second chance, as his friends and family lended him money and a place to stay and encouraged him to come back. He went, and in de time, he had enough money to send for his family. Sue, along with her mother, Maria, and her 2 other siblings, Dora and Androulla. It would’ve been more but Maria unfortunately had a miscarriage of twins 5 months into her pregnancy, Sue still remembers how they looked and where they were buried. I want to preface that Maria hasn’t left Polis in her all her life, and this is how she travelled with the girls to England. They were guided by a friend on a bus to Limassol. Where they boarded a boat to Alexandria to collect more passenger and then later to Port Said. Although Sue was 12, she remembers the pyramids clear as day. From Egypt the boat took them to Piraeus, Greece, and from Greece to Italy. Where they took a train through Italy, all the way to France. And boarded another to the top of France. In their travels Yiayia remembers losing her youngest sister on the boat, and the perels of taking all their food with them as none were provided. From the Ferry to England, and train to kings cross station, they were met with George at the Station and were taken to their new apartment. At this time is was Christmas. It was the first time they seen such festivities, and more importantly the first time they have seen a TV. Sue was entrtalled by it, refusing to turn it off to eat dinner with her family, but also thinking that the men in the TV would simply stay still until she turned it on again. Being in the Christmas period, it was not long until school started. Sue and her siblings were sent straight to school with out any English learning. Yiayia explained the weather was nothing she has ever felt before. Being in her stockings she could feel the breeze hit straight in her bone, and rustle her leg hair that peek through them. Her mediertarrian complexation, naturally produces a lot of hair, but more on that later. Sue naturally struggled at school because of the language barrier. But, one subject she excelled in was maths. Drawn to numbers, she was a promising mathematician. But her path was halted by her father, as he believed that women shouldn’t have education, and was to be taken out of school soon. When she explains this time in her life, I see that Yiayia still has resentment to this authoritive position. And think about what she could’ve done if she has the choice to stay. She remembers the feeling of ambition as a child in this time. This also happened with Dora. But when it was happening, Dora’s teacher asked for George to come in. Yiayia remembers the teacher as an African woman who cared about the path of the girls, and argued with George to let Dora stay atleast one more year, where she would learn shorthand. Which would be useful in her future. At this time, Sue couldn’t stand the hair sticking out of her stockings, and pleaded with her Mum to let her shave. Which was met with a stern ‘No’. Until one day, while everyone was out, of their apartment, that was a small room, that had one single bed, a double bed pressed up against the single so all the daughters could sleep together. Her parents would put a bed in the kitchen for them to sleep. Let’s just say, no privacy as the bath was a steel deep tray in one of the corners. And couldn’t shield what was about to transpire. Sue takes her dad’s fave shaver and starts to shave her legs. Obviously disastrous, she finished with her legs covered in cuts, and a nice scolding from her Mum when she finds out. Yiayia is fond of this memory, and it doesn’t fail to make her giggle when she tells it. 

When taken out of school, she became a hair dresser. An apprentice first. The hair dresser was a Jewish man named Mr Barrz. Himself and his employees took Sue under their wind. And she grew into the woman she is today, and that is it without to mention developing a strong ‘Pom’ accent. If you see my Yiayia, she has beautiful ginger hair. Its hard to think that someone from Cyprus has these light features. But Yiayia, often reminds us of her her uncle. He was fair haired and had beautiful green eyes, and her Papou had unforgettable deep blue eyes. Along with the memory of her uncle’s looks, she remembers how he would collect olive pits and sand them done with limestone, from either the house or the outdoor oven. All the way down to the hollow part of the pit, where he will drill a hole to make komboloi. This tangent is not even relevant, because her ginger hair is not natural, but this is how she got it. When she started working, she wanted to become ginger, obviously halted by her dad. She though of gradually colouring her hair to the desired shade. The initial change was dramatic, and she explained to her dad that it was a reaction with a wrong product that made her hair lighter, anything to stop her dad from blowing his lid off. Overtime it became ginger, and even her dad complimented how nice she looked with it. Going back to Cyprus for a wedding. This is where she met my Constantinou (Con) Kitallides, where he was 22 and Sue was 16 at the time. They promised to marry each other by the time Sue was 18. In the 60s, Con set off to London to study and be with his fiancée. But, it was proven to be difficult. Although Con’s family was ‘well off’ by Cypriot standards. He was not able to make ends meet in London while he studied. Working odd jobs at takeout restaurants in the evening, and being a porter at railway stations. He couldn’t make it work, as he had to focus for his O and A levels before he could even start university. Knowing he will have more luck in Greece, he set off, not without marrying Sue first. 
Con was born November 4th 1942, into a family with 6 other siblings. His mum made men’s shirts as there were no established factories yet. His dad was a fish monger, barber (which doubled as a dentist back then), and someone who barters. His expertise ranged from tooth extraction, selling wool, which was wool mixed with hair clippings from customers. Which produced more ‘wool’ to see for more of a profit. And my all time favourite, which was a joint venture between Con’s dad and mum. They hosted their house to people, think of it as an original AirBnb. Where one guest, Eugenios, which was Sue’s teacher that she hated, and the name of my first cat. Eugenios was often greeted home from a hard day at work with a meaty soup. Meat was hard to come by in that time due to it being so expensive. He revelled in the delish substantial meal, without knowing he was eating Bats. 
Con always pursed education, and always followed opportunities regarding education. Till this day, he pushed this on to his grandchildren. I attribute a lot of my motivation in his praise of my academic accomplishments. So now moving to Greece, he wouldn’t want to leave his now wife. Con, his brother and Yiayia, travelled all the way down to Dover. Where they boarded a Ferry to Calais, France. Yiayia explained that in this time, it was a ‘first-come-first-serve’ situation for the Ferry, which almost left Con’s brother stranded in Dover. It caught wind that Con and Sue just got married. So they were invited to the captain’s dinner, which was useful as they would’ve had to supply their own food, which they didn’t prepare for. After the Ferry, they made their way down to Greece. Yiayia, said she loved the freedom in Greece even at the expense of living with pittance, but missed London. She wasn’t accustomed to ‘Greek way’ of life, and no way of learning in the buying meat. Sue was buying minced meat for koftedes. After asking for 500 grams of mincemeat, the butcher comes back with the meat in the bag. Placing it on the scale, along with the bone. Curious she asked why he placed the bone on the scale. He answered by saying that since the meat came on the bone, you also need to buy the bone. Sue protested obviously, stating that she didn’t need the bone, and she would just throw it out after. Of course, bossman didn’t care, and the rules is buy the bone too. She begrudgingly paid for the meat… and the bone. In the apartment, that they stayed in, there were 2 double beds, a table and 3-4 chairs. At the end of the semester, they didn’t pay rent for the last 2 months of them staying there. Although not a lot of furniture, Sue thought to herself that they would be used in compensation for the lack of rent paid. But, this plan was overturned, as  a friend from Cyprus was moving around Greece and needed the furniture. On the day that they left, they waited until everyone took their siesta in the afternoon. Where they would sneak all the furniture out of the apartment, to the friend’s car. Sue paranoid, that the landlord/caretaker of the apartment or the police was waiting for them, for the debts they hold. To her surprise, they weren’t caught, and more importantly no one was looking for them in the first place. If we look back around, we know that Sue and Con wanted to go to Australia after the Turkish invasion, so in 1975, My Mum, My Theia, Yiayia, and Papou came to Australia. First living in Richmond off church street, which was a ‘Little Greece’ at the time. Yiayia lead their family as she was proficient in English, helping Papou find his first job as a teacher’s Aid a primary school. Until he was qualified enough to be a teacher, creating a bilingual program, as 90% of their students were Greek. Where ultimately Yiayia started to work, and they started their tenure as teachers until they retired. 

