Today I lost $30 million for my company. It was the first time I really made a mistake like this, and it was the first time I thought of the weight of the blow. It vanished and I have nothing to account for it, I was told by my subordinates that It was ok that I lost that money 'only a drop in the ocean', as our investment and trading company has an evaluation of $30 billion British Pounds. I try to rationalize the lost in my head 'its only 0.1%' of our estimated value. It weighed on me, through out the day, even after the market has closed, even at my Omekase lunch that I have every Thursday. 

But as I walk out on Canary Wharf, I'm surrounded by the strength and power these financial markets will hold. I will go back to my house to the humble city of Islington. As I roll out of the city in my car, I find myself calm down as the rush hour of city blends into the quiet suburbia I love. I go home to my wife, she is preparing dinner and is startled by my entry. I assure her that it is just me, and even after 7 years of marriage it seems that she is still not used to the routine that we live everyday. I ask where Tom is, she reminds me that he has Rugby training, as she does every Thursday. She asked me about my day, I turn to answer her, but she is more focused on the meal that she is cooking. I wanted to tell her about the mistake, and I forcefully yank at the knot of my tie to loosen it. Swaying it to find the exact side that gives leverage. After a sigh, I explain to her in leyman's terms on what happened today. Even with that she doesn't seem to understand the potential severity of the mistake. I progressed to talk about how things could be effected by the blunder: loss of capital for the company and market instability. Still has a blank expression, her eyes simply staying into place, it was like she was holding back any emotional that can come from her resting face. So I talked about more things that she could relate to; 'I could loose my job', 'We could lose our savings', 'No more trips to Europe', 'No more Waitrose' then something came out of me. 'No more house', 'no more clothes', 'no more food', ' we will starve and die'. As I was saying this, it reminds me of the dwellers amoung buildings in Canary Wharf before they go away. I pictured myself there for a few seconds, dirty, unhoused, begging for change, I got nauseated by the sight. Then, I decided I never want to allow the chance to loose this ever again.  

I woke up the next day with a Second Wind, eager to mend my mistake and go beyond, increasing the chance of more earnings for the clients that decided to have their funds managed by us. I did everything right this morning, as I normally do, kiss my wife goodbye, and take the car into the city. I'm thinking of getting a driver, being at the helm of this coup on London's roads makes me stressed and takes away my focus that I need for work. As I park my car underneath my office, I take a deep sigh, and peel out of the car. Straight focus, going pass the security gate, seamlessly tapping my pass, with the right walking speed to get past the opening doors with out stopping. As people come and go out of the elevator and I reach the top, I come out with the same fire I felt yesterday night. It seems like everyone in the office forgot what happened yesterday, but I feel a pit in my stomach sink deeper and deeper as soon as I turn on the work computer and boot up our trading software. 

I truly believe the journey that I'm investing in will prevail, its the people's aversion to risk that is making the whole thing fall apart. The protest against the data center in the green belt, is nothing but a small manufactured dip that will come back. The government will allow the center to be built, and the AI company will pull in more capital more than ever. I need to change the people's mind, and push for this. Being high up as I am, I have access to more the company's funds then most people do. I really shouldn't do this, because of the 'ethical' implications, but I use our subsidiaries and ghost accounts to pay for the shares that are bought, creating a much needed push to get the ball rolling. As soon as it gets momentum, I will sell the shares to eager buyers, and it was like I was never in places I shouldn't be. For the greater good, and the much deserved return on this high growth stock, its something I'm willing to justify. Before the markets open, I set up the accounts, and make sure that the credentials are random enough, not to trace it back to me. I close my office door, and shut the blinds. I need full focus for this endeavor if it will pull through. I start off conserviately, following the intial climb that most companies start with as the market opens. Then I start ramping up the buying, seeing the logs of transactions, to my astonishment, I can't recognize the addresses they come from, it must be others buying into the stock. Through pure Andrenaline from my eleation, I reach my quota of buying, and I'm at a level to sell where the momentum will stay and I will make my $30 million back, more, double that. If I even try my luck, triple that. I sink back into my chair with force, its like I let out all the tension in my body from the last hour. And Wonder, how far can I take this?

I start the next morning a little differently, I ride on the high of yesterday, and bask in the fact that only I came back from my mistake, I made an opportunity from it. I took my morning slow, having a longer shower, and giving my wife a loving kiss as I made my way to the kitchen counter. I ask for her to put on the news, and my face lifts with joy as the financial portion is reporting on my stock, and advises all the punters to get in it as markets open. With my new found silent fame, I decide to take the tube, the excitement will distract me driving. And I want to know what its like to be among people that don't know that I have manfucated this great wealth increase. Using my credit card, as my oyster card has been expired for years, I squeezed through the gate that violently opens and shuts in milliseconds. I get a little confused by the train station, but I don't worry, I'm just out of practice. And as I push everyone on the platform out of the way as the train pulls up, and with that same violent motion opens its doors, I rush to get a seat before anyone else, I even squeeze through the people that want to come off the train. As I sit down, and grin at everyone around me, I want to share this feeling I have in me with everyone, and try and make their stale, sad faces beam. As the train goes between stops with its deafening whistle, I find the noise to create some solace, adding peace to the happiness. I feel better than ever and I will go into my office, and do it all again. 

Almost repeating the exact same thing as I did yesterday, I bought more of the stock. It did make me anxious as I'm pouring more money into this, but I think I was confusing that with something else. Closing the market again with an all time high, I suppressed what I felt and rode the wave for a couple more days.

I follow my new found routine, and I day dream on the tube that after this close I will retire. Although I'm in my 40s, this will propel me into unseen fortune, and I can leave this mistake in the pass for the rest of my life. Manuouvering through the station's gates, I almost didn't notice the newspaper strapped to the kiosk before the escalators. Grabbing my full attention as I brisk past it, I've abruptly stopped, even my sole of my shoes left a mark. The cheeky tabloid title really got me 'Green Belt's Data Center Plan a Flop'. I rip the news paper from the cords that hold it back, the clerk yells '3 pounds' for that one. I look at him in bewilderment, does he know I deserve this paper for free, seeing how much this will cost me. I threw a $5 note at him after hastily opening my wallet to fish for it, all the while he stares at me. I scoff and pace down the escalators. I don't even bother going back to my house to get my car, reading this deserves all my attention. I open the page where there full article is, while trodding down 3 levels of escalators. Almost muscle memory, my head is deep in the paper as I march onto the tube. I open every window near me in the tube, to let air in, even though its 5 degrees outside I was burning up. Initially I calmed myself down, the data center was not approved in the city of London, I thought, they will just go somewhere else. Only when my eyes scurried down, I see the deeper shit this company is in. Unreported earnings, suspected government bailout, secuirties fraud... I could cry at this minute. I swear everyone in the tube to feel the glow of my face as it burns red. 

I swear the driver drove the tube slower today. I just made it to the office before the market opened, I sped past everyone in my path, I would've open palm pushed people out of my way if I needed to. I didn't look at my watch, but I knew when I got to my office I was a couple minutes since the market closed. I didn;t have my computer logged out from yesterday, so I immeditally dialed in. I had the entire train ride to prepare for the horror but nothing can prepare you for what you see. The red figures contrast more against the black background, and the sight burns into your retinas. I audibly gasped, and hover my hand over my mouth, either out of nature or to stop the vomit coming from my mouth. I try to sell the stock to recoup any profit, but it was at a heavily discounted price. Admitting this number hurt my soul, $540 million. I don't know how it got this far, but it did, and it rocked me to the core. I heard a tap on my office's wall, it was all window, and it shook through all the panels. 

I needed anything to let this burden go, even human interaction. I said come in, and the light that came from the door opening, opposing the black out blinds that were drawn, burned more than the red. It was Will. Will has been my mate for about as long as I can remember, we started in the financial sector, although, we were at different companies from time to time, we always manage to come back to each other. He firstly asked if I'm alright, it was earnest and it was what I needed to get me speaking. I said I was, I was just flat out with a project. He brought up the AI Stock's performace this morning. 

"I know you were wanting to provide the return we wanted, but somethings it doesn't work out". 

"I'm lucky I abandoned that project a while ago, and I'm working on something else". 

I replied. Will had a visible pull back in the neck as he heard, and then smiled. 

"Then lets get you out of this room"

He walks towards me, to get to the control of the blind. And I quickly put in the command to sleep my computer. While opening the curtains, flooding London's overcast grey into the room. 

"A lot of work going on for a black screen" He chuckled, I chuckled with him. Bringing myself together to get up from my chair and leave the office with him. As far as I know, no one knew it was me, because I was extra careful with masking our dummy accounts. But the company just lost $540 million pounds... 

I was on autopilot for the rest of the day, I got home and I don't remember what I did before I went to bed. But I woke up, in a drunken haze and the hangover never came. I couldn't bring myself to drive, so I took the tube again. It was like I shared the misery, of everyone in the network. I felt like that $540 million was my own, and I'm roaming around in debt, just like everyone else surrounds me. Heading to the office, I don't go in to my office, I work in the 'hot desk' open setting, where most of the company works. I sat down at the few remaining desks, it was a certaintly a sight. Most people were looking at me, but I didn't care. No one knows the cloud that hangs over my head, the price being $540 million to be exact. 

There is still hunger in me, amoungst this cloud. I log into the software to make more purchases, I know I can come back. But everything I did I was seeing red. Losses after loss, until lunch time. Instead of going out, I went down to the cafeteria, at the ground floor of our building, and ate a very sad wrap. Eat bite I contemplate my choices, and grow angry in my situation. I can't do much since the market is about to close. But I make my last purchases until it does. I try to play it safe, but as soon as I log in the next day, the whole portfolio is in the red, and for that matter all of the market. Am I doing this? It can't be. I throw what ever I can, more money, more diversification, nothing. Its like its draining out of the supply. Its only until I received a Teams notification for a meeting at 5pm, it was marked as high priority, and the invitees were everyone that traded. The meeting had the title, 'Recent Activity', my heart sank, they didn't shy away from its possibility and I thought of a million scenarios in my head. But, I continued with my work, more money lost until the market closed. I stayed at my desk from 4:30 to around 4:57 to get to the meeting room a little bit later, save the awakward initial gathering of people. 

By the time I got there most of the seats were taken, they were set up in a normal row fashion. So I decided to stand at the back, I've caught a couple of glares from people, as I've been a bit of recluse in the past few days. I shook hands with a few of the people at my level, and as the Finance general manager walked in from the door that was a couple of centimeters to the right of me, he quickly stopped to shake my hand, and pat my back and his presence made me calm in this time. He walked to the lecturn, and with out a moment to gather his thoughts, he started. 

"It has come to the financial team's attention, that there has been a deficit in assets. I'm going to be completely transparent, we don't know the nature of this situation just yet, but we will be taking extreme measures to mitigate any more losses. We will limit transactions for associates traders and traders roles for a couple of months, while we audit our history and get to the bottom of this. I want everyone to report to their line manager going forward, as they have been briefed on how operations will now run." 

After he eneded, I was expecting more. But, he always has been matter of fact, and no filler. There were a few questions, and it seemed that all senior roles will not be affected by this encumbrance. I left the office after that meeting, forgetting my bag at the desk. 

When I started the next morning, I was freely trading. I tested if I was subjected to any restrictions by the change, but I was going about my day like nothing has happened, when you start loosing money. It seems like the amount doesn't even matter until you start making it back. 

I really dont know how long I was trading for until the collapse of the company. I was sitting at my desk, until the Finance's General Manager entered the floor, we made contact for a bit as he strode to the back of the room. Until I hear at the back of me, a deep voice with sublte cracks 

it was like everyone just got a little bit poorer that day 

